README.md, before:

# Vajra Kavach - National Emergency Response System

## 🛡️ Biometric Emergency Response Platform

**Developed by: Soumodeep Guha**  
**Version:** 2.0  
**Security Classification:** Government-Ready  
**Deployment Status:** Multi-Region Production Ready

---

## 📋 Executive Summary

Vajra Kavach is a government-ready emergency response platform designed for rapid, secure assistance during critical situations. The system provides real-time biometric authentication, GPS tracking, and AI-powered threat detection to support public safety agencies across multiple regions.

**Mission Critical Capabilities:**
- Sub-5 second emergency response initiation
- High-availability architecture with auto-healing infrastructure
- Strong encryption (AES-256-GCM)
- Multi-region deployment (India, UK, France, Pakistan)
- 300+ simultaneous incident handling capacity
- Low false-acceptance biometric authentication

### Key Features
- **Instant Emergency SOS** - One-button activation with automatic emergency services dispatch
- **Biometric Security** - Fingerprint authentication with cryptographic hashing (no raw biometric storage)
- **Multi-Region Support** - Deployed across Africa, America, Europe, and Asia
- **Real-Time Location Tracking** - GPS-enabled emergency response coordination
- **Code Integrity Protection** - Tamper detection and integrity checks for critical components
- **Auto-Healing System** - Continuous system health monitoring with automatic recovery
- **Threat Intelligence** - 90-day threat model updates with quarterly security refreshes

---

## Government Standards & Compliance

### International Compliance Framework

#### 🇪🇺 **GDPR Compliance** (European Union)
- ✓ Right to access, erasure, and data portability
- ✓ 72-hour breach notification
- ✓ Explicit consent management
- ✓ Data minimization principles

#### 🇺🇸 **CCPA Compliance** (California, USA)
- ✓ Consumer privacy rights
- ✓ Data non-sale commitment
- ✓ Annual transparency reports
- ✓ Opt-out mechanisms

#### 🇮🇳 **Indian IT Act 2000 (Amended 2008)**
- ✓ Section 43A: Data protection compensation framework
- ✓ Section 72A: Breach liability and penalties
- ✓ Reasonable security practices (ISO/IEC 27001 aligned)
- ✓ Data localization for sensitive information

#### 🇮🇳 **CERT-In Requirements** (India)
- ✓ Mandatory 6-hour incident reporting
- ✓ 180-day log retention minimum
- ✓ 24/7 incident response team
- ✓ Coordination protocols with national CERT

#### 🏛️ **ISO/IEC 27001:2022**
- ✓ Information Security Management System (ISMS)
- ✓ Risk assessment and treatment
- ✓ Security controls catalog
- ✓ Continuous improvement cycles

#### 📊 **NIST Cybersecurity Framework**
- ✓ Identify: Asset discovery and risk assessment
- ✓ Protect: Access controls and data security
- ✓ Detect: Real-time monitoring and anomaly detection
- ✓ Respond: Incident response procedures
- ✓ Recover: Business continuity and disaster recovery

#### ✅ **SOC 2 Type II Ready**
- ✓ Security controls implementation
- ✓ Availability and reliability (99.9% uptime SLA)
- ✓ Processing integrity
- ✓ Confidentiality and privacy measures

---

## Government Proposal Summary

### Problem Statement
Emergency response systems lack integration between citizens and emergency services, resulting in delayed response times and inadequate resource allocation during critical situations. Current systems have fragmented communication channels, limited real-time tracking, and no unified threat assessment capability.

### Solution Architecture

#### **1. Rapid Response Activation**
- Single-tap emergency SOS activation
- Automatic emergency services notification (Police, Ambulance, Fire)
- Real-time location sharing with dispatch centers
- Instant contact notification to emergency contacts
- **Impact**: Average response time reduction from 8 minutes to <2 minutes

#### **2. Advanced Security**
- Multi-factor authentication with biometric fallback
- Strong encryption (AES-256-GCM)
- Code integrity protection and tamper detection
- Continuous threat monitoring and automated remediation
- **Impact**: Reduced attack surface and faster incident containment

#### **3. Multi-Regional Deployment**
- **Africa**: Lagos, Johannesburg, Nairobi coordination
- **America**: US, Canada, Brazil integration
- **Europe**: EU emergency service linkage
- **Asia**: India-first deployment with regional expansion
- **Impact**: Coverage for 1 billion+ potential users

#### **4. AI-Powered Threat Detection**
- Emergency SOS detection: high-precision scoring (benchmarked in test suites)
- Threat pattern recognition using machine learning
- Predictive emergency resource allocation
- Automated threat intelligence updates (90-day cycle)
- **Impact**: Faster triage and more efficient dispatch planning

#### **5. Data Protection & Privacy**
- Data minimization outside emergency context
- Encrypted audio/video during emergencies
- Configurable data retention (default: 30 days post-emergency)
- User consent management dashboard
- **Impact**: Strong alignment with GDPR/CCPA principles and privacy-by-design

---

## Technology Stack

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI (Python)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with Supabase
- **Caching**: Redis
- **Container**: Docker
- **Orchestration**: Kubernetes (3-10 replicas, HPA enabled)

### Security
- **Encryption**: AES-256-GCM (at rest), TLS 1.3 (in transit)
- **Authentication**: JWT + MFA + Fingerprint Biometric
- **Integrity Controls**: Code signing and tamper detection
- **Monitoring**: Prometheus + Grafana

### CI/CD
- **Pipeline**: GitHub Actions (fully automated)
- **Testing**: 25,000+ test cases with benchmark reporting
- **Scanning**: Trivy, CodeQL, Bandit, TruffleHog, Grype
- **Deployment**: Staging → Production with automatic rollback

---

## Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Docker
- Kubernetes cluster (for production)
- PostgreSQL 13+

### Local Development

```powershell
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/rock4007/vajra.git
cd VajraBackend

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
. .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Configure environment
Copy-Item .env.example .env

# Run application
python main.py
```

Server runs on `http://0.0.0.0:8000`

### Docker Deployment

```bash
docker build -t vajra-backend:latest .
docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file .env vajra-backend:latest
```

### Kubernetes Deployment

```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s-deployment.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s-configmap.yaml
kubectl rollout status deployment/vajra-backend -n production
```

---

## API Endpoints

### Health & Status
- `GET /health` - System health check
- `GET /version` - Version and configuration info
- `GET /regions` - Supported regions and status

### Authentication
- `POST /fingerprint` - Biometric authentication
- `POST /heartbeat` - Liveness detection
- `POST /location` - Location services

### Emergency Services
- `POST /sos_alert` - Emergency SOS activation
- `POST /sensors` - Shield/protection status
- `POST /ai_safety` - AI threat detection
- `POST /audio` - Audio stream upload

---

## Security Features

### Code Integrity Protection
- File integrity monitoring (SHA-256 hashing)
- Anti-debug detection
- Process monitoring
- Controlled isolation on tamper signals

### Auto-Heal Manager
- Hourly health checks
- Automatic recovery from backup
- 99.9% availability target

### Threat Model Manager
- 90-day threat intelligence updates
- Quarterly security refresh
- Automated threat feed integration

---

## Testing

### Test Coverage
- **Total Tests**: 25,000+ (current baseline)
- **Emergency Detection**: Benchmarked in automated suites
- **Security Tests**: OWASP comprehensive scanning
- **Performance Tests**: Concurrent connection stress testing

### Run Tests

```bash
pytest tests/ -v --cov=app
python security_test_fixed.py
python fast_readiness_audit.py
```

---

## Compliance Documentation

- **[LICENSE](LICENSE)** - MIT License with Government Compliance Notice
- **[COMPLIANCE.md](COMPLIANCE.md)** - Full Regulatory Compliance Framework
- **[PRIVACY_POLICY.md](PRIVACY_POLICY.md)** - Data Protection and Privacy Policy
- **[SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md)** - Vulnerability Reporting and Security Best Practices
- **[CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)** - Version History and Updates
- **[.env.example](.env.example)** - Secure Configuration Template

---

## Deployment & CI/CD

### GitHub Actions Workflows

#### CI/CD Pipeline (`.github/workflows/ci-cd.yml`)
1. **Build**: Python setup, dependency installation, Docker build
2. **Test**: pytest with coverage
3. **Push**: Docker image push to GHCR
4. **Staging Deploy**: Staging environment (develop branch)
5. **Production Deploy**: AWS EKS deployment (main branch)
6. **Rollback**: Automatic rollback on failure

#### Security Scanning (`.github/workflows/security.yml`)
- Bandit (Python security)
- Safety (dependency vulnerabilities)
- OWASP Dependency Check
- CodeQL analysis
- Container scanning (Trivy, Grype)
- Secret scanning (TruffleHog, GitGuardian)

### Deploy to GitHub

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Production ready: Systems operational

- Code Integrity Protection: Enabled
- Auto-Heal Manager: Enabled  
- Threat Model Updates: Enabled (90-day cycle)
- Multi-Region: Africa, America, Europe, Asia
- Compliance: GDPR, CCPA, Indian IT Act, CERT-In, ISO 27001, SOC 2, NIST
- Tests: 25,000+ passing with benchmark reporting
- Security: Readiness checks passed"

git push origin main
```

**Deployment Pipeline**: ~10-15 minutes (build 2-3min + scan 5-7min + deploy 3-5min)

---

## Regional Support

### 🌍 Multi-Region Configuration

| Region | Status | Emergency Services | Data Residency | Coverage |
|--------|--------|-------------------|-----------------|----------|
| **Africa** | Active | South African SAPS, EMS | SA Data Centers | 40 countries |
| **America** | Active | US 911, Canadian 911, SAMU | AWS US East | 35 countries |
| **Europe** | Active | EU Services, Interpol | EU Data Centers | 27 EU countries |
| **Asia** | Active | India Police, Ambulance | India Data Centers | 15 countries |

---

## Monitoring & Metrics

### Real-Time Monitoring
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection and alerting
- **Grafana**: Visualization dashboards
- **Sentry**: Error tracking

### KPIs

| Metric | Target | Actual | Status |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| Response Time | <500ms | <200ms | ✅ |
| Uptime | 99.9% | 99.95% | ✅ |
| Emergency Detection | 99% | 99.81% | ✅ |
| False Positives | <1% | 0.19% | ✅ |

---

## Contact & Support

### Government & Legal
- **Compliance**: compliance@vajrakavach.com
- **DPO**: dpo@vajrakavach.com
- **Security**: security@vajrakavach.com
- **Support**: support@vajrakavach.com

### Emergency Reporting (CERT-In)
- **Email**: cert-in@vajrakavach.com
- **Response Time**: 6 hours (CERT-In compliant)

---

## License & Disclaimer

Licensed under MIT License with Government Compliance Notice. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

**This system is designed for emergency response. Users must ensure compliance with local laws and regulations.**

---

## Repository Information

- **Repository**: https://github.com/rock4007/vajra
- **Status**: ✅ Production Ready (January 29, 2026)
- **Version**: 1.0.0
- **License**: MIT + Government Compliance

---

**Ready for government proposal and production deployment.**

✅ Compliance frameworks implemented  
✅ Security systems operational  
✅ 25,507+ tests passing  
✅ Multi-region support  
✅ CI/CD pipeline ready  

🚀 **Deploy immediately**

Commit message:

Add workflow and testing visuals to README

README.md, after:

# Vajra Kavach - National Emergency Response System

## 🛡️ Biometric Emergency Response Platform

**Developed by: Soumodeep Guha**  
**Version:** 2.0  
**Security Classification:** Government-Ready  
**Deployment Status:** Multi-Region Production Ready

---

## 📋 Executive Summary

Vajra Kavach is a government-ready emergency response platform designed for rapid, secure assistance during critical situations. The system provides real-time biometric authentication, GPS tracking, and AI-powered threat detection to support public safety agencies across multiple regions.

**Mission Critical Capabilities:**
- Sub-5 second emergency response initiation
- High-availability architecture with auto-healing infrastructure
- Strong encryption (AES-256-GCM)
- Multi-region deployment (India, UK, France, Pakistan)
- 300+ simultaneous incident handling capacity
- Low false-acceptance biometric authentication

## 🎯 Project Intent

Vajra Kavach is built to reduce emergency response times and improve coordination between citizens and public safety agencies. The platform focuses on secure activation, accurate location sharing, and reliable dispatch workflows—while maintaining compliance with regional privacy and security standards.

## 🧭 Visual Overview

### Workflow (Citizen → Dispatch → Response)
![Workflow Overview](docs/images/workflow.svg)

### Testing & Assurance Pipeline
![Testing Overview](docs/images/testing.svg)

### Key Features
- **Instant Emergency SOS** - One-button activation with automatic emergency services dispatch
- **Biometric Security** - Fingerprint authentication with cryptographic hashing (no raw biometric storage)
- **Multi-Region Support** - Deployed across Africa, America, Europe, and Asia
- **Real-Time Location Tracking** - GPS-enabled emergency response coordination
- **Code Integrity Protection** - Tamper detection and integrity checks for critical components
- **Auto-Healing System** - Continuous system health monitoring with automatic recovery
- **Threat Intelligence** - 90-day threat model updates with quarterly security refreshes

---

## Government Standards & Compliance

### International Compliance Framework

#### 🇪🇺 **GDPR Compliance** (European Union)
- ✓ Right to access, erasure, and data portability
- ✓ 72-hour breach notification
- ✓ Explicit consent management
- ✓ Data minimization principles

#### 🇺🇸 **CCPA Compliance** (California, USA)
- ✓ Consumer privacy rights
- ✓ Data non-sale commitment
- ✓ Annual transparency reports
- ✓ Opt-out mechanisms

#### 🇮🇳 **Indian IT Act 2000 (Amended 2008)**
- ✓ Section 43A: Data protection compensation framework
- ✓ Section 72A: Breach liability and penalties
- ✓ Reasonable security practices (ISO/IEC 27001 aligned)
- ✓ Data localization for sensitive information

#### 🇮🇳 **CERT-In Requirements** (India)
- ✓ Mandatory 6-hour incident reporting
- ✓ 180-day log retention minimum
- ✓ 24/7 incident response team
- ✓ Coordination protocols with national CERT

#### 🏛️ **ISO/IEC 27001:2022**
- ✓ Information Security Management System (ISMS)
- ✓ Risk assessment and treatment
- ✓ Security controls catalog
- ✓ Continuous improvement cycles

#### 📊 **NIST Cybersecurity Framework**
- ✓ Identify: Asset discovery and risk assessment
- ✓ Protect: Access controls and data security
- ✓ Detect: Real-time monitoring and anomaly detection
- ✓ Respond: Incident response procedures
- ✓ Recover: Business continuity and disaster recovery

#### ✅ **SOC 2 Type II Ready**
- ✓ Security controls implementation
- ✓ Availability and reliability (99.9% uptime SLA)
- ✓ Processing integrity
- ✓ Confidentiality and privacy measures

---

## Government Proposal Summary

### Problem Statement
Emergency response systems lack integration between citizens and emergency services, resulting in delayed response times and inadequate resource allocation during critical situations. Current systems have fragmented communication channels, limited real-time tracking, and no unified threat assessment capability.

### Solution Architecture

#### **1. Rapid Response Activation**
- Single-tap emergency SOS activation
- Automatic emergency services notification (Police, Ambulance, Fire)
- Real-time location sharing with dispatch centers
- Instant contact notification to emergency contacts
- **Impact**: Average response time reduction from 8 minutes to <2 minutes

#### **2. Advanced Security**
- Multi-factor authentication with biometric fallback
- Strong encryption (AES-256-GCM)
- Code integrity protection and tamper detection
- Continuous threat monitoring and automated remediation
- **Impact**: Reduced attack surface and faster incident containment

#### **3. Multi-Regional Deployment**
- **Africa**: Lagos, Johannesburg, Nairobi coordination
- **America**: US, Canada, Brazil integration
- **Europe**: EU emergency service linkage
- **Asia**: India-first deployment with regional expansion
- **Impact**: Coverage for 1 billion+ potential users

#### **4. AI-Powered Threat Detection**
- Emergency SOS detection: high-precision scoring (benchmarked in test suites)
- Threat pattern recognition using machine learning
- Predictive emergency resource allocation
- Automated threat intelligence updates (90-day cycle)
- **Impact**: Faster triage and more efficient dispatch planning

#### **5. Data Protection & Privacy**
- Data minimization outside emergency context
- Encrypted audio/video during emergencies
- Configurable data retention (default: 30 days post-emergency)
- User consent management dashboard
- **Impact**: Strong alignment with GDPR/CCPA principles and privacy-by-design

---

## Technology Stack

### Backend
- **Framework**: FastAPI (Python)
- **Database**: PostgreSQL with Supabase
- **Caching**: Redis
- **Container**: Docker
- **Orchestration**: Kubernetes (3-10 replicas, HPA enabled)

### Security
- **Encryption**: AES-256-GCM (at rest), TLS 1.3 (in transit)
- **Authentication**: JWT + MFA + Fingerprint Biometric
- **Integrity Controls**: Code signing and tamper detection
- **Monitoring**: Prometheus + Grafana

### CI/CD
- **Pipeline**: GitHub Actions (fully automated)
- **Testing**: 25,000+ test cases with benchmark reporting
- **Scanning**: Trivy, CodeQL, Bandit, TruffleHog, Grype
- **Deployment**: Staging → Production with automatic rollback

---

## Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.11+
- Docker
- Kubernetes cluster (for production)
- PostgreSQL 13+

### Local Development

```powershell
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/rock4007/vajra.git
cd VajraBackend

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
. .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Configure environment
Copy-Item .env.example .env

# Run application
python main.py
```

Server runs on `http://0.0.0.0:8000`

### Docker Deployment

```bash
docker build -t vajra-backend:latest .
docker run -p 8000:8000 --env-file .env vajra-backend:latest
```

### Kubernetes Deployment

```bash
kubectl apply -f k8s-deployment.yaml
kubectl apply -f k8s-configmap.yaml
kubectl rollout status deployment/vajra-backend -n production
```

---

## API Endpoints

### Health & Status
- `GET /health` - System health check
- `GET /version` - Version and configuration info
- `GET /regions` - Supported regions and status

### Authentication
- `POST /fingerprint` - Biometric authentication
- `POST /heartbeat` - Liveness detection
- `POST /location` - Location services

### Emergency Services
- `POST /sos_alert` - Emergency SOS activation
- `POST /sensors` - Shield/protection status
- `POST /ai_safety` - AI threat detection
- `POST /audio` - Audio stream upload

---

## Security Features

### Code Integrity Protection
- File integrity monitoring (SHA-256 hashing)
- Anti-debug detection
- Process monitoring
- Controlled isolation on tamper signals

### Auto-Heal Manager
- Hourly health checks
- Automatic recovery from backup
- 99.9% availability target

### Threat Model Manager
- 90-day threat intelligence updates
- Quarterly security refresh
- Automated threat feed integration

---

## Testing

### Test Coverage
- **Total Tests**: 25,000+ (current baseline)
- **Emergency Detection**: Benchmarked in automated suites
- **Security Tests**: OWASP comprehensive scanning
- **Performance Tests**: Concurrent connection stress testing

### Run Tests

```bash
pytest tests/ -v --cov=app
python security_test_fixed.py
python fast_readiness_audit.py
```

---

## Compliance Documentation

- **[LICENSE](LICENSE)** - MIT License with Government Compliance Notice
- **[COMPLIANCE.md](COMPLIANCE.md)** - Full Regulatory Compliance Framework
- **[PRIVACY_POLICY.md](PRIVACY_POLICY.md)** - Data Protection and Privacy Policy
- **[SECURITY.md](SECURITY.md)** - Vulnerability Reporting and Security Best Practices
- **[CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md)** - Version History and Updates
- **[.env.example](.env.example)** - Secure Configuration Template

---

## Deployment & CI/CD

### GitHub Actions Workflows

#### CI/CD Pipeline (`.github/workflows/ci-cd.yml`)
1. **Build**: Python setup, dependency installation, Docker build
2. **Test**: pytest with coverage
3. **Push**: Docker image push to GHCR
4. **Staging Deploy**: Staging environment (develop branch)
5. **Production Deploy**: AWS EKS deployment (main branch)
6. **Rollback**: Automatic rollback on failure

#### Security Scanning (`.github/workflows/security.yml`)
- Bandit (Python security)
- Safety (dependency vulnerabilities)
- OWASP Dependency Check
- CodeQL analysis
- Container scanning (Trivy, Grype)
- Secret scanning (TruffleHog, GitGuardian)

### Deploy to GitHub

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Production ready: Systems operational

- Code Integrity Protection: Enabled
- Auto-Heal Manager: Enabled  
- Threat Model Updates: Enabled (90-day cycle)
- Multi-Region: Africa, America, Europe, Asia
- Compliance: GDPR, CCPA, Indian IT Act, CERT-In, ISO 27001, SOC 2, NIST
- Tests: 25,000+ passing with benchmark reporting
- Security: Readiness checks passed"

git push origin main
```

**Deployment Pipeline**: ~10-15 minutes (build 2-3min + scan 5-7min + deploy 3-5min)

---

## Regional Support

### 🌍 Multi-Region Configuration

| Region | Status | Emergency Services | Data Residency | Coverage |
|--------|--------|-------------------|-----------------|----------|
| **Africa** | Active | South African SAPS, EMS | SA Data Centers | 40 countries |
| **America** | Active | US 911, Canadian 911, SAMU | AWS US East | 35 countries |
| **Europe** | Active | EU Services, Interpol | EU Data Centers | 27 EU countries |
| **Asia** | Active | India Police, Ambulance | India Data Centers | 15 countries |

---

## Monitoring & Metrics

### Real-Time Monitoring
- **Prometheus**: Metrics collection and alerting
- **Grafana**: Visualization dashboards
- **Sentry**: Error tracking

### KPIs

| Metric | Target | Actual | Status |
|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| Response Time | <500ms | <200ms | ✅ |
| Uptime | 99.9% | 99.95% | ✅ |
| Emergency Detection | 99% | 99.81% | ✅ |
| False Positives | <1% | 0.19% | ✅ |

---

## Contact & Support

### Government & Legal
- **Compliance**: compliance@vajrakavach.com
- **DPO**: dpo@vajrakavach.com
- **Security**: security@vajrakavach.com
- **Support**: support@vajrakavach.com

### Emergency Reporting (CERT-In)
- **Email**: cert-in@vajrakavach.com
- **Response Time**: 6 hours (CERT-In compliant)

---

## License & Disclaimer

Licensed under MIT License with Government Compliance Notice. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

**This system is designed for emergency response. Users must ensure compliance with local laws and regulations.**

---

## Repository Information

- **Repository**: https://github.com/rock4007/vajra
- **Status**: ✅ Production Ready (January 29, 2026)
- **Version**: 1.0.0
- **License**: MIT + Government Compliance

---

**Ready for government proposal and production deployment.**

✅ Compliance frameworks implemented  
✅ Security systems operational  
✅ 25,507+ tests passing  
✅ Multi-region support  
✅ CI/CD pipeline ready  

🚀 **Deploy immediately**
